# Network Analysis and Community Detection of Industrial Facilities in New York State

Industrial facilities can emit a variety of toxic chemicals into the air. Depending on a variety of factors, such as the processes being employed, each facility will emit a distinct type, amount, and group of chemicals. Certain chemical emissions are known to co-occur since they are typically present in specific processes. For example, benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene are collectively referred to as BTEX compounds. These compounds are often found together in petroleum related industries since they are naturally found in crude oil. Formaldehyde and dioxins are other common toxins since they are released as byproducts of incomplete combustion and through a broad area of activities. This project performs network analysis and community detection on industrial facilities, which are linked based upon commonalities in their chemical emissions. 

## Toxic Release Inventory
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) specifies the amount of toxic air releases for each industrial facility that reports to the database. Those facilities that meet minimum thresholds report to this database on an annual basis. The reporting thresholds are 25,000 pounds of chemicals manufactured or processed, or 10,000 pounds otherwise used. Certain persistent and bioaccumulative chemicals have lower reporting thresholds. Dioxins and dioxin-like compounds have the lowest reporting threshold in the inventory at 0.1 grams over a calendar year.
